---
title: Example Designs
layout: page
parent: Media Center App
nav_order: 2
---

{% include toc.md %}

# Media Center Example Designs

Now that you've completed the [DesignCompose][1] and the [Media Center
Demonstration][2] tutorials, take a look at the Media Center app design examples
on this page to get you started with your own user experience designs. You can
use the same codebase to create your designs.

## Switch between different example designs {#SwitchBetweenDesigns}

In the [Media Center Demonstration][2], you downloaded a reference app called
`MediaCompose_Reference_App`.

To try different designs with that app, follow these steps:

To open Design Switcher, follow these steps:

1.  Download the appropriate `.fig` file from the DesignCompose partner Google
    Drive and add it to your Figma account (using the **Import file** button on
    the Figma Files view).

1.  Use the Design Switcher in the top corner of the device display to pick an
    alternative design from your Favorites.

When MediaCompose is started, try the designs described in the following
sections.

## UX variations {#UXVariations}

These design variations were created to show the different types of UX flows you
can create using only Figma interactions. Each uses a simple wireframe-like
design language.

### Now Playing & Browse toggle {#NowPlaying}

<img src="./play-browse-toggle-1x.png" class="attempt-right">

The **Now Playing & Browse toggle** design places the Now Playing and Browse
functionality as top-level peers, with a toggle to switch between them. Drivers
and passengers can either see the Now Playing information and use the media
playback controls or can visit Browse to find something else to listen to. This
kind of structure is well suited for small screens, which would be too crowded
showing both elements at the same time.

UIs for source switching, search, and up-next tracks are implemented using
Figma's **Open overlay** action.

<p class="clear"></p>

Find this design at `Media Designs/1 - Play & browse toggle.fig` in the
DesignCompose partner Google Drive.

### Browse Slide-Up {#BrowseSlideUp}

<img src="./play-browse-slide-up-1x.png" class="attempt-right">

The **Browse Slide-Up** design presents the Now Playing functionality initially,
with Browse available as an overlay, accessible using a button at the top of the
screen. Since the Browse view is smaller than the full Now Playing view, this
design is better suited for taller screens, so there is enough space to display
Browse content.

<p class="clear"></p>

Find this design at `Media Designs/2 - Play & browse slide-up.fig` in the
DesignCompose partner Google Drive.

### Now Playing Fly-Up {#NowPlayingFlyUp}

<img src="./one-screen-fly-up-1x.png" class="attempt-right">

In the **Now Playing Fly-Up** design, Browse functionality is the primary view
and the Now Playing functionality is a bar at the bottom. Drivers and passengers
wanting access to extended controls or a bigger view of the Now Playing display
can tap on the bar, and a larger view of Now Playing flies up to overlay the
Browse view. This is a versatile design that can be used for most display sizes
and form factors.

<p class="clear"></p>

Find this design at `Media Designs/4 - One screen with fly-up.fig` in the
DesignCompose partner Google Drive.

### Top Media Source Tabs {#TopMedia}

<img src="./top-tabs-1x.png" class="attempt-right">

In the **Top Media Source Tabs** design, the available media sources are always
accessible at the top of the media player, making it easy for the listener to
switch between sources. Users can browse the selected source immediately below.
As in the previous design, the Now Playing functionality is in a bar at the
bottom, and a larger view is accessible by tapping on it.

<p class="clear"></p>

Find this design at `Media Designs/5 - Top media source tabs.fig` in the
DesignCompose partner Google Drive.

## Nova {#Nova}

<img src="./nova-1x.png" class="attempt-right">

**Nova** is a whimsical design that delivers functionality with style. In this
design, Browse is the main view with a source switcher drop-down at the top so
it's easy to select another source. Similar to the previous two designs, the Now
Playing functionality is in a bar at the bottom and users can switch to the
larger view by tapping on the bar. Style elements are described below.

*   The Now Playing mini-bar has expanded curved areas to accommodate a larger
    album art image and a Play and Pause control, making it easier to use. The
    top contour of the full Now Playing view is shaped to give space to the
    album art, while providing a larger touch area above it to close it. Because
    the mini-bar has an irregular shape, it's important to make sure that the
    elements at the end of the Browse, Up Next and Playlist lists are not
    obstructed, which is addressed by additional padding in the scrolling Page
    component.

*   Our designer wanted to convey lightness and whimsy with this design. The
    background of the Browse view has a rosy wash like a sky with the first
    blush of sunlight at dawn. The text, such as the time in the progress bar,
    is in pastel multi-color.

<p class="clear"></p>

Find this design at `Media Designs/3 - Nova Media.fig` in the DesignCompose
partner Google Drive.

[1]: {%link _docs/tutorial/index.md %}
[2]: {%link _docs/media-center-demo/index.md %}
